
## Bachelor’s Degrees

- B.A. Bachelor of Arts

The usual degree path for majors in liberal arts, humanities or social sciences such as English, creative writing, fine arts or political science. A B.A. is typically awarded upon completion of a four-year undergraduate program at a traditional school or university.

- B.S. Bachelor of Science

The bachelor's typically awarded to undergraduates in science and technical fields.

- B.F.A. Bachelor of Fine Arts

Awarded to majors like art history, theater, film studies and photography.

- B.B.A. Bachelor of Business Administration

A business-oriented bachelor's path, typically associated with management, accounting, marketing, etc.

- B.Arch Bachelor of Architecture

A bachelor's degree geared towards the architecture field.

- BSN Bachelor of Science in Nursing

A degree path oriented towards the technical and hands-on training necessary to obtain a nursing license.

- B.E. Bachelor of Engineering

Concentrates on engineering fields like electrical engineering, mechanical engineering and computer engineering.

## Master’s Degrees

- M.A. Master of Arts

The basic graduate-level degree granted to grad students in fields in the humanities, social sciences or fine arts.

- M.B.A. Master of Business Administration

The Master of Business Administration is the master-level degree granted upon completion of a business administration or management-oriented program. In contrast to an M.A., M.B.A. programs are typically oriented around subjects more narrowly tailored towards business operations like accounting, marketing and analysis.

- M.S. Master of Science

Typically awarded to graduate students in scientific or technical fields.

- M.S.W. Master of Social Work

Similar to the M.B.A., the Master of Social Work is narrowly defined master's degree focused on social work. M.S.W. programs may adhere to either a clinical track or practice track. The clinical track is oriented towards working with patients, while the practice track focuses on politics and policy as well as management.

## Doctoral Degrees

- Ph.D Doctor of Philosophy

Despite what the name might suggest, this isn't a degree for philosophers exclusively. A Ph.D is the doctorate-level degree granted in a variety of different disciplines. These are typically research-intensive programs pursued by those who've already acquired bachelor's and master-level credentials in their field of study.

- Psy.D. Doctor of Psychology

The Psy.D.is similar to a standard doctorate degree, but granted specifically for students pursuing psychology practice.


## FAQs

What do these letters stand for?

There are two parts; one can classify the educational level of the degree: "B" stands for bachelor's degree; "M" stands for master's degree; and "D" stands for doctoral degree. The second part denotes the discipline of the degree, like "S" for science, "A" for arts, or "Ph" for Philosophy.

What are the distinctions between arts and science degrees?

Depending on the school you attend and the kind of courses you take, you could earn an arts degree or a science degree. Typically, an "arts" degree means that you focused on a wide area of learning and discussion, while a "science" degree implies a deep, technical understanding of your subject.

What kinds of designations exist for doctoral students?

The highest degree you can earn in most liberal arts disciplines is a PhD, or Doctor of Philosophy. However, clinical and counseling psychologists earn a PsyD, Doctor of Psychology nomenclature; medical students earn M.D. degrees and law students can earn J.D. (Juris Doctor) degrees.

What about some of the other specialized degrees?

Distinctive nomenclature are named after applied disciplines, include Master of Social Work (MSW), Doctor of Social Work (DSW), Master of Education degree (MaEd), Master of Business Administration (MBA), or Doctor of Business Administration (DBA).

Now that you know some of the benefits of online learning, find a program that’s right for you. Browse our school listings below to get matched to an online school.